#PySide Summer Chapter 17 (Online help and internationalization)
PySide port of files in Chapter 17 of Mark Summerfield's 'Rapid GUI Programming with Python and Qt' (2008). Also see `usefulStuff.md` for helpful links and excerpts from the PySide documentation. 

##Notes on translation
If you want to create a translation of an app, follow the instructions on page 514 of the book:
1. Prep your code for internationalization
Wrap all strings that the user will see (e.g., "hi") within self.tr(). If in main, then wrap within QApplication.translate("hi").

2. Create a project (.pro) file
Make sure you have a project file (e.g., 'imagechanger.pro') that lists the translation source files you will use (e.g., imagechanger_fr.ts), as well as other source files for the application. There must be an entry in the TRANSLATIONS section of the project file for each language other than the native language. For instance, in our example:
TRANSLATIONS += imagechanger_fr.ts
 
3. Create the translation source (.ts) files using pyside-lupdate
Note to do this just run: pyside-lupdate imagechanger.pro and it should make the appropriate .ts file listed in your .pro file. pyside-lupdate is a command line tool that finds the translatable strings in your files (e.g., the strings wrapped in tr()), and produces or updates .ts translation files.

Usage: within the relevant directory, at system command line, enter:
pyside-lupdate imagechanger.pro
If it works nothing will happen in the command line, but imagechanger_fr.ts will show up in the directory.

Note as Summerfield mentions, PyQt uses pylupdate4.

4. Do the translations by hand with the help of Qt Liniguist
Use Qt Linguist to translate the .ts file's strings, saving them in the .qm file that is what is actually used in the application. It is probably in your site-packages folder for your Python distribution, and will be called 'linguist.exe'. 

Once you've done the translation, you can make qm file from this using 'file->release' translator uses qm file, or use lrelease (see 5).

5. Create corresponding Qt Message (.qm) files
Qt message (.qm) files are binary files that contain translations used by an application at run-time. These files are generated by QtLinguist, but can also be generated by lrelease, which is a command line tool that produces qm files out of .ts files. The .qm file format is a compact binary format that is used by the localized application. It provides extremely fast lookups for translations. 

Usage: in relevant directory enter following in command line:
lrelease imagechanger_fr.ts

6. Update and recompile resource file
Once the qm files are all prepared, you usually will need to recompile your qrc file, as it usually lists the qm files the application will use.


###Licensing and such
Code is under the GPL license: http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html

This script is part of the PySideSummer repository at GitHub:
https://github.com/EricThomson/PySideSummer
